# Insights into sports - why you are not an elite athlete
In this project, the emphasis lies on the following questions: What takes an athlete to be successful in his sport? Undeniably, experience, talent, and luck all play into success. What about height and weight? How does their impact on success differ among sports? In this project, ten different sports are looked at, ranging from team to individual sport, differing in their setting and physical requirements.
To answer these questions public data are aggregate by means of Sparql that queries Wikidata. Wikidata enabled to collectively collect data about any matter including athletes. Wikidata provided a very useful tool to exploit the advantages of being a knowledge graph. The pure size and reach of Wikidata enables a data gathering that not only allows to scale but also to include different domains. One can filter on specific objects, such as a gold medal awarded to all athletes of a specific sport in a specific event and gather the year at the same time. A depth of data exploration can be reached that without the property of a knowledge graph would not be possible.
The query results made a data analysis on the variables height and weight possible. The clearest effect could be seen for female tennis players. It is interesting to see how only two variables can differ so much among sports.

For complete documentation please refer to the PDF-file. For technical details, please visit the Python file and text file containing the Sparql queries.
